# Dealing with Data

The essence of object-oriented programming (OOP) is designing and extending your own data types. Before you can create your own types, you must know and understand the types that are built in to C++ because those types will be your building blocks. The built-in C++ types come in two groups: fundamental types and compound types.

## Simple Variables

!!! info
    To store an item of information in a computer, the program must keep track of three fundamental properties:
    - Where the information is stored
    - What value is kept there
    - What kind of information is stored

### Names for Variables
C++ encourages you to use meaningful names for variables.

Rules for naming variables:
- The only characters you can use in names are alphabetic characters, numeric digits,
and the underscore (_) character.
- The first character in a name cannot be a numeric digit.
- Uppercase characters are considered distinct from lowercase characters.
- You can’t use a C++ keyword for a name.
- Names beginning with two underscore characters or with an underscore character
followed by an uppercase letter are reserved for use by the implementation—that is,
the compiler and the resources it uses. Names beginning with a single underscore
character are reserved for use as global identifiers by the implementation.
- C++ places no limits on the length of a name,and all characters in a name are significant. However, some platforms might have their own length limits.

### Integer Types
Integers are numbers with no fractional part.

#### The short, int, long, and long long Integer Types

- A short integer is at least 16 bits wide.
- An int integer is at least as big as short.
- A long integer is at least 32 bits wide and at least as big as int.
- A long long integer is at least 64 bits wide and at least as big as long.

#### The sizeof Operator and the climits Header File


#### Initialization

#### Initialization with C++11

### Unsigned Types
Each of the four integer types you just learned about comes in an unsigned variety that can’t hold negative values.This has the advantage of increasing the largest value the variable can hold. For example, if short represents the range –32,768 to +32,767, the unsigned version can represent the range 0 to 65,535.

### Choosing an Integer Type

### How C++ Decides What Type a Constant Is

### The char Type: Characters and Small Integers

### Universal Character Names







### Integer Literals


## The const Qualifier

## Floating-Point Numbers

## C++ Arithmetic Operators

## Summary

